Peer review: Scheduled Events (#9090)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/modeling/resources/scheduled-events.md

> ## Introduction

Author: Can we add some more background information on what scheduled events are? Right now, it jumps right into what they do without much information on what they actually are.

Reviewer: It is a way to make the runtime "execute" a microflow repeatedly at specified intervals. So that is what they _are_. But I agree that it doesn't really say why you might want to use them. I'll try making the introduction more gentle and see if that works?

Author: This looks more in line with our style guide. I made one small suggestion, but looks good otherwise.

> With scheduled events, you can make the runtime execute a microflow repeatedly at specific intervals. The microflow is run using the [task queue](/refguide/task-queue/) mechanism.

Author: Can any of the instances of "execution" in this doc be changed to "run" or something similar? Considering options to limit usage based on the Inclusive Language section of the style guide.

Reviewer: Yes, definitely. Although there are a couple of places where it needs to remain. Thanks for pointing this out.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e4281f9a-694c-4766-b087-f2e925558c82)

Author: Makes sense--glad we're able to make some adjustments.

A scheduled event is added to your module as a document (right-click your module and you will find it listed under *Add other*).

{{% alert color="warning" %}}

> Scheduled events can be tested locally, but they will not be run if your app is deployed as a Free App. For more information on Free App limitations, see the [Free App](/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/#free-app) section of *Mendix Cloud*.

Author: Revised where link is placed in doc reference

| Documentation | This field is for documentation purposes in the app model only. Its value is not visible to end-users and does not influence the behavior of your application. |

## Execution Properties

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Microflow | The microflow that is executed when the scheduled event is executed. It should have no parameters and is run with all rights (see [Microflow](/refguide/microflow/)). |
| Enabled | The microflow is only executed if the scheduled event is enabled. This setting only applies when running from Studio Pro or from Eclipse. On production environments, scheduled events are enabled/disabled via the platform tools (for example, the Mendix Portal or Windows Service Console). |

## Timing Properties

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Interval type | The type of scheduled that should be executed. Valid values are [Yearly](#yearly), [Monthly](#monthly), [Weekly](#weekly), [Daily](#daily), [Hourly](#hourly), or [Minutes](#minutes). |

### Yearly Properties {#yearly}

> Yearly events come in two flavors:

Author: Should the wording match the UI? "Yearly events have two input types"?

Reviewer: I guess so, but it is very bad wording in the UX - it is describing the code, not what the customer needs to do. I'll try to make it better!

Author: Looks good :)

* Execute on a specific date

> * Execute on a specific weekday

Author: Should this match the UI and say specific "month and weekday"?

## Introduction

> Sometimes you will want to regularly run a microflow which does not require end-user interaction. You can do this using scheduled events. Scheduled events are managed using the [task queue](/refguide/task-queue/) mechanism,

Author: ```suggestion
Sometimes you will want to regularly run a microflow which does not require end-user interaction. You can do this using scheduled events. Scheduled events are managed using the [task queue](/refguide/task-queue/) mechanism.
```

| Month | The month in which to execute the event. |
| Day | The day on which to execute the event. |
| Time | The time at which to execute the event. |
| UTC/Server | Whether to use UTC or a local time set on the server. See [Server Time](#server-time) below for more information. |
| On overlap | See explanation of options in [Long-Running Events](#long-events). |

### Monthly Properties {#monthly}

> Monthly events also come in two flavors:

Author: Same as above

> | Months | The months in which the event will be executed; not visible when executing every month. |

Author: Should this row be removed, as it is not visible in the UI when selecting a monthly interval?

> | Month | The month in which to execute the event. |

Author: Double-check the UI: On my end, I see **Interval** instead of **Month**.

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Time | The time at which to execute the event. |
| UTC/Server | Whether to use UTC or a local time set on the server. See [Server Time](#server-time) below for more information. |
| On overlap | See explanation of options in [Long-Running Events](#long-events). |

> ### Hourly Properties {#hourly}

Author: Screenshot in this section needs to be updated

### Long-Running Events {#long-events}

> If a repeated scheduled event takes longer than the interval, an overlap would occur. To prevent this, a choice must be made on how to handle this. This is set in the **On overlap** property of the scheduled event.

Author: ```suggestion
If a repeated scheduled event takes longer than the interval, an overlap would occur. To prevent this, choose one of the following options in the **On overlap** property of the scheduled event:
```

    Should an event have drifted a long way from its intended schedule over time, the best way to remedy this is to delete the event and create a new one (with a longer interval).

## Additional Information

### Server Time{#server-time}

> Although you can choose **Server** time rather than **UTC** time, make sure that your server time is set as you expect. Many servers are set to run on UTC to avoid issues when working across time zones.

Author: ```suggestion
You can choose **Server** time rather than **UTC** time, but make sure that your server time is set as you expect. Many servers are set to run on UTC to avoid issues when working across time zones.
```

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
All Mendix Cloud servers are set to UTC.
{{% /alert %}}

### Daylight Saving

> If the chosen time zone is UTC, then an event will always execute at the specified time. However, if server time is chosen there may be daylight saving for the configured time zone (in the app's runtime settings). If a time is chosen which is in the daylight saving time window (the time at which the clocks change, for example between 01:00 and 03:00 in Europe), then that time will not occur on one day of the year and occur twice on another day of the year. The scheduled event will not be affected by this and will execute exactly once on those days.

Author: Should the daylight saving example be for a specific region (e.g. EMEA vs Americas vs APAC)?

>     Should an event have drifted a long way from its intended schedule over time, the best way to remedy this is to delete the event and create a new one (with a longer interval).

Author: ```suggestion
    If an event have drifted a long way from its intended schedule over time, the best way to remedy this is to delete the event and create a new one with a longer interval.
```
